Procedural documentation for the join package (#4466)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/flux/v0.x/join-data/full-outer.md

{{% /flex-content %}}
{{< /flex >}}
{{% /expand %}}
{{< /expand-wrapper >}}

## Prepare your data

Ensure the data streams you want to join adhere to the
[join input data requirements](/flux/v0.x/join-data/#data-requirements).

## Use join.full to join your data

1. Import the `join` package.
2. Define two streams of tables to join.

    One stream of table represents the left side of the join.
    The other stream of table represents the right side of the join.

3. Use `join.full()` to join the two streams together.
    Provide the following parameters:

    - `left`: stream of data representing the left side of the join
    - `right`: stream of data representing the right side of the join
    - `on`: [join predicate](/flux/v0.x/join-data/#join-predicate-function-on)
    - `as`: [join output function](/flux/v0.x/join-data/#join-output-function-as)
      that returns a record with values from each input stream

      {{% note %}}
#### Account for missing, non-group-key values

With the output function used in the `on` parameter with `join.full()`

> it’s possible for either `1` or `r` to use the default record (a record with

Reviewer: nit, but this should be an `l`, not a `1`

group key columns populated but other columns are _null_).
`join.full()` guarantees that `l` and `r` will never both use default records at

> the same time and will have the non-null values needed for the output record

Reviewer: Can we modify this just a bit. Suggestion:

```
In a full outer join, it's possible for either `l` or `r` to be a default record, but they will never both be default records at the same time. One of them is guaranteed to have the non-null values needed for the output record, but a check is required to determine which one.
```

Feel free to fiddle with the wording on that. Just want to make sure we're clear about what guarantees we can and can't make.

For each non-group-key column you want to ensure has a non-null value in the output,
use a conditional statement to check for the existence of a value in the `l` or `r`

> record and return the value that exists:

Reviewer: Can we make it clear that this check is only necessary for full outer joins? Left, right, and inner joins don't need this check.

Reviewer: Nevermind, I just realized this doc is specifically for `join.full()`. Disregard.

| :-- | :----------------------------------- | :----------------------------------- | :----------------------------------- | :----------------------------------- |
| r1  | <span style="color:#9b2aff">●</span> | <span style="color:#9b2aff">●</span> | <span style="color:#d30971">▲</span> | <span style="color:#d30971">▲</span> |
| r2  | <span style="color:#9b2aff">●</span> | <span style="color:#9b2aff">●</span> |                                      |                                      |
| r3  |                                      |                                      | <span style="color:#d30971">▲</span> | <span style="color:#d30971">▲</span> |
| r4  |                                      |                                      | <span style="color:#d30971">▲</span> | <span style="color:#d30971">▲</span> |
{{% /flex-content %}}
{{< /flex >}}
{{% /expand %}}
{{< /expand-wrapper >}}

## Prepare your data

Ensure the data streams you want to join adhere to the
[join input data requirements](/flux/v0.x/join-data/#data-requirements).

## Use join.full to join your data

1. Import the `join` package.
2. Define two streams of tables to join.

> 
>     One stream of table represents the left side of the join.
>     The other stream of table represents the right side of the join.

Author: ```suggestion
```

3. Use `join.full()` to join the two streams together.
    Provide the following parameters:

    - `left`: stream of data representing the left side of the join
    - `right`: stream of data representing the right side of the join
    - `on`: [join predicate](/flux/v0.x/join-data/#join-predicate-function-on)
    - `as`: [join output function](/flux/v0.x/join-data/#join-output-function-as)
      that returns a record with values from each input stream

> 
>       {{% note %}}
> #### Account for missing, non-group-key values

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Account for missing, non-group-key values.
```

With the output function used in the `on` parameter with `join.full()`
it’s possible for either `l` or `r` to use the default record (a record with
group key columns populated but other columns are _null_).
In a full outer join, it's possible for either `l` or `r` to be a default record,
but they will never both be default records at the same time.
One of them is guaranteed to have the non-null values needed for the output record,

> but you need to check which one has the non-null values.

Reviewer 2: think the content above can move to the conceptual doc?
and then keep the content below for step 3.

> For each non-group-key column you want to ensure has a non-null value in the output,
> use a conditional statement to check for the existence of a value in the `l` or `r`
> record and return the value that exists:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To ensure non-null values are included in the output for non-group-key columns, 
check for the existence of a value in the `l` or `r`
record, and return the value that exists:
```
